This is a quick How-to about the annotation application used for the phenology project.

1. The annotation features:
    1. How to make an annotation?
       You make sure to select the label you want You use the left click to
       start the annotation square and let go when you are happy with the
       square For the square that was just created you can re-size it by
       using the right click.

2. Zoom features:
    1. How to zoom in and zoom out? You can change to the zoom state by
       pushing the zoom button. Note that you cannot make any annotation
       in this state to get out of the zoom state, push the button once more.
       There are various forms of zooming:
            1. When in the zoom state you can make a square in the image and
               it will zoom into the square.
            2. When in the zoom state you can click on the image and it will
               zoom into the spot you clicked.
            3. When in the zoom state you can use the mouse middle roller to
               zoom in and zoom out.
    2. How do I enter zoom mode?
       Just push the zoom button.
    3. How do I get out of zoom mode?
       You can push the zoom button again. Note that pushing the grab button
       will get you out of zoom and into grab.

3. Grab features:
    1. How do I enter grab mode? Just push the grab button.
    2. How do I get out of grab mode? You can push the grab button again.
       Notice that if you push the zoom button while in grab mode you will get
       out of grab mode and go into zoom mode.
    3. How do I use the grab mode? You use the mouse to "grab" the image and
       move it in whatever direction you deem necessary.

4. Correction features:
    1. What is correction? You use the correction state when you need to delete
       squares (annotations).
    2. How do enter correction state? Just push the correction button.
    3. How do I get out of correction state? Just push the correction button.
       Note that pushing the correction button will not get you out of zoom
       state nor grab state.
    4. How do I select a square? when in correction state you must click on one
       of the sides of the square you want to delete. If you click on the upper
       corner of the square, the selection wont work (I blame Matlab). Just make
       sure you are selecting the lower or one of the lateral sides of the
       square (not the upper).
    5. How do I delete a square? Once you have selected a square (it will turn
       green) then you can delete that square by pushing the 'd' key. This will
       make the square disappear and you can put something in its place.

5. The clear annotation button:
    1. This button will clear all the annotations in the screen. Please use with
       caution. If you are in an ftp image you don't have an easy way of
       bringing all the cleared annotation (if you have one at all)

6. The add files button:
    1. This button is used to add files from the local computer. It will open a
       dialog box that will prompt you for the directory where the pictures are.
       You must choose the pictures (files) that you want to use. In general the
       application can work with local files and remote files, but it is
       recommended to work with only one type of file at a time.

7. The add ftp button: If you don't see this button its because its disabled.
    1. What does it do? It ask you for ftp server information and it gets the
       list of relevant files from the server.
    2. What does it ask for? It needs the server URL the login and password. It
       needs all this for the connection. It will also ask for a directory to go
       fetch the images from.
    3. Why does it error when I hit cancel? This is a known bug. Will probably
       get better in the next version.
    4. Why does it take so long? Its ftp from matlab, please be patient.

8. The add ssh button:
    1. What does it do? It will go to the server and fetch the files and put it
       in cache.
    2. How does it work? All the configuration variables: server-name, user-name
       and directory are defined in the configuration file (annotation.conf).
       This works by using the Unix ssh command (only on Linux). Therefore the
       remote ssh login without password needs to be configured in the computer
       prior to using the application.

9. Specific ftp considerations:
    1. What is a lock? Since more than one person is going to be working on the
       images, then they need to be "locked". This means that only one person can
       work on an image at a time. If you want to modify an image and the image
       is locked by someone else, then you must wait until that image is unlocked.
    2. The cache. All the images and the annotation will be in the cache directory.
       The cache directory is defined in the annotation.conf file.

